Dates and Deadlines for admission process:

July 1 through July 31: Winter/spring 2024 application filing period for Merced, Riverside and Santa Cruz.
August 1: Application opens for applicants for fall 2024.
September 1 through September 30: Transfer Admission Guarantee (TAG) application filing period for fall 2024 term.
October 1 through November 30: Fall 2024 admission application filing period for all applicants.
December 15: Online transfer application update (TAU) opens for transfer applicants to report final fall grades and in-progress or planned coursework (priority deadline is January 31).
December 31: Filing period for FAFSA and Cal Grant Verification Form opens for applicants to all terms (filing period open through March 2, 2024).
March 1: Notification of all admission decisions begin
April 2: Deadline for applicants for all terms to submit FAFSA and Cal Grant GPA Verification Form.
May 1: Notification period for fall 2024 admission decisions ends.
May 1 through May 31: Transfer Admission Guarantee (TAG) application for winter/spring 2025 term.
June 1: Deadline for admitted transfer students to submit Statement of Intent to Register (SIR).
July 1: For students admitted for fall 2024: Final, official transcripts must be sent to the campus admissions office. Transcripts must be postmarked or electronically submitted on or before July 1.
July 15: Official AP, IB examination results and other documents (such as IGETC certification) must be sent to the campus admissions office. Test scores and documents must be postmarked or electronically submitted on or before July 15.

Quick tips: 
Apply to more than one UC campus.
This will significantly increase your chances of being admitted to the UC system. While you may not receive an offer of admission from your first-choice campus, all of our campuses—without exception—provide outstanding opportunities for you to learn and grow.

Submit only one application per term.
Submitting multiple applications will cause a processing delay. Duplicate applications will be canceled. 

Apply on time.
You can fill out the application in as many sessions as you want. Just remember to submit it by November 30 (for the fall term).

The UC application:
Starting the application

Create an account
An email address and password are required in order to create an account. You should use the email account you use for all applications, just to make it easier to remember. We also recommend you use a non-school issued email account (e.g. Gmail, Yahoo). Campuses send important, time-sensitive correspondence to applicants, so you should check your email regularly (including your spam folders).

Selecting term & level
After you create an account, you’ll need to select the term you’re applying for (when you hope to start at UC) and your applicant level (e.g. freshman, transfer, etc.).
You're a transfer applicant if you've graduated high school and are enrolled in a regular session (fall, winter or spring) at a college or university.

Saving information
You should click “Save & continue” at the bottom of each page to save any entered information (there is a 20-minute inactivity period after which the application will automatically sign you out). If you’ve successfully completed a page (answered all required questions), the page will be marked with a checkmark in the navigation bar on the right-hand side.

Sections: 

About you:
This first section has several pages asking for information about you and your family. You may need to ask your parents or legal guardians for help on these questions. Eligibility for the UC application fee waiver will be determined by the information you provide in this section. 

Campuses & majors
This is where you’ll select which campuses you’re applying to and the majors you’re interested in. You must select a major for each campus you’re applying to.


Academic history
Here you'll need to enter all the colleges you have attended or will attend before enrolling at UC, as well as your coursework and grades. In addition, we would like to know the last high school you attended.
Make sure you refer to your transcripts (or academic records) as you fill out any information—don't enter information from your memory. It's important to report all of your schools, courses and grades exactly as they would appear on official transcripts or academic records.

Test scores
AP, IB , English proficiency and International exams: You will be asked about each of these exams on separate pages in this section. You’ll need to report scores if you’ve already taken an exam or indicate if you’re planning on taking an exam in the future.

Activities & awards
This is your opportunity to tell us about what you're most proud of outside the classroom. We're looking for quality, not quantity—so make sure to focus on the activities and awards that are most important to you. Keep in mind, we're interested in your experiences, activities, and awards after high school and during your time at your college. Your activities don't necessarily need to be through organized, school-sponsored programs.
You’ll need to classify each activity/award as one of five categories: Award or honor, Educational preparation programs (any programs that have enriched your academic experiences or helped you prepare for college), Extracurricular activity, Volunteering/Community service and Work Experience.

Scholarships & programs
You should select any and all scholarship categories that apply to you (there’s no limit on the number of scholarships you can select). You can also indicate if you’re interested in the Educational Opportunity Program (EOP), which provides support services when you’re at UC.

Personal insight
This is the section where you’ll need to answer the personal insight questions. You’ll need to answer four questions: One question is required, and three are your choice. 

Review & submit
This is the last page you’ll visit before you start submitting the application. If you have remaining items to complete, you will see a “To Do” next to that section. Don't forget to make sure your application is complete before you submit it; very few changes can be made after submission.

Submitting the application 
You’ll go through a few pages asking you to confirm your academic information and whether you’d like to share your application information with certain people or groups (e.g. scholarship agencies, parents/guardians, counselors, etc.). You'll also need to pay your application fees (either by check/mail or credit card) and can apply for a fee waiver if you didn’t automatically qualify for one earlier in the application. The fee waiver will cover your application fees for up to four campuses.

Confirmation
Once you’ve submitted your application, you’ll see a confirmation page with important reminders and your UC Application ID Number which is used to access the various campus student portals and, in many cases, to access your admission decisions. You can choose to print a receipt of your application fees or view and print the entire application.

Personal insight questions
There’s a lot more to your UC application than grades and coursework. There’s the journey you took to get here too. From developing your talents and skills, to making a difference in your community, to preparing for your major: everything you’ve done has led you here. That’s the story we want to hear.

Directions
There is one required question you must answer.
You must also answer 3 out of 7 additional questions.
Each response is limited to a maximum of 350 words.
Which three questions you choose to answer are up to you. However, you should select questions that are most relevant to your experience and that best reflect your individual circumstances.

Keep in mind
All questions are equal: All questions are given equal consideration in the application review process, which means there is no advantage or disadvantage to choosing certain questions over others.
There is no right or wrong way to answer these questions: It's about getting to know your personality, background, interests and achievements in your own unique voice.

Questions & guidance
Remember, the personal insight questions are just that; personal. Which means you should use our guidance for each question just as a suggestion in case you need help The important thing is expressing who you are, what matters to you and what you want to share with UC.

Required question
Please describe how you have prepared for your intended major, including your readiness to succeed in your upper-division courses once you enroll at the university.
Things to consider: How did your interest in your major develop? Do you have any experience related to your major outside the classroom;such as volunteer work, internships and employment, or participation in student organizations and activities? If you haven't had experience in the field, consider including experience in the classroom. This may include working with faculty or doing research projects.
If you're applying to multiple campuses with a different major at each campus, think about approaching the topic from a broader perspective, or find a common thread among the majors you've chosen.

Choose to answer any three of the following seven questions:
1. Describe an example of your leadership experience in which you have positively influenced others, helped resolve disputes, or contributed to group efforts over time.
Things to consider: A leadership role can mean more than just a title. It can mean being a mentor to others, acting as the person in charge of a specific task, or taking lead role in organizing an event or project. Think about your accomplishments and what you learned from the experience. What were your responsibilities? 
Did you lead a team? How did your experience change your perspective on leading others? Did you help to resolve an important dispute at your school, church in your community or an organization? And your leadership role doesn't necessarily have to be limited to school activities. For example, do you help out or take care of your family?

2. Every person has a creative side, and it can be expressed in many ways: problem solving, original and innovative thinking, and artistically, to name a few. Describe how you express your creative side. 
Things to consider: What does creativity mean to you? Do you have a creative skill that is important to you? What have you been able to do with that skill? If you used creativity to solve a problem, what was your solution? What are the steps you took to solve the problem?
How does your creativity influence your decisions inside or outside the classroom? Does your creativity relate to your major or a future career?

3. What would you say is your greatest talent or skill? How have you developed and demonstrated that talent over time?
Things to consider: If there's a talent or skill that you're proud of, this is the time to share it. You don't necessarily have to be recognized or have received awards for your talent (although if you did and you want to talk about, feel free to do so). Why is this talent or skill meaningful to you?
Does the talent come naturally or have you worked hard to develop this skill or talent? Does your talent or skill allow you opportunities in or outside the classroom? If so, what are they and how do they fit into your schedule?

4. Describe how you have taken advantage of a significant educational opportunity or worked to overcome an educational barrier you have faced.
Things to consider: An educational opportunity can be anything that has added value to your educational experience and better prepared you for college. For example, participation in an honors or academic enrichment program, or enrollment in an academy that's geared toward an occupation or a major, or taking advanced courses that interest you, just to name a few.
If you choose to write about educational barriers you've faced, how did you overcome or strive to overcome them? What personal characteristics or skills did you call on to overcome this challenge? How did overcoming this barrier help shape who you are today?

5. Describe the most significant challenge you have faced and the steps you have taken to overcome this challenge. How has this challenge affected your academic achievement?
Things to consider: A challenge could be personal, or something you have faced in your community or school. Why was the challenge significant to you? This is a good opportunity to talk about any obstacles you've faced and what you've learned from the experience. Did you have support from someone else or did you handle it alone?
If you're currently working your way through a challenge, what are you doing now, and does that affect different aspects of your life? For example, ask yourself, How has my life changed at home, at my school, with my friends, or with my family?

6. What have you done to make your school or your community a better place?
Things to consider: Think of community as a term that can encompass a group, team or a place like your high school, hometown, or home. You can define community as you see fit, just make sure you talk about your role in that community. Was there a problem that you wanted to fix in your community?
Why were you inspired to act? What did you learn from your effort? How did your actions benefit others, the wider community or both? Did you work alone or with others to initiate change in your community?

7. Beyond what has already been shared in your application, what do you believe makes you a strong candidate for admissions to the University of California?
Things to consider:If there's anything you want us to know about you, but didn't find a question or place in the application to tell us, now's your chance. What have you not shared with us that will highlight a skill, talent, challenge or opportunity that you think will help us know you better?
From your point of view, what do you feel makes you an excellent choice for UC? Don't be afraid to brag a little.

Writing tips:

Start early.
Give yourself plenty of time for preparation, careful composition and revisions.

Write persuasively.
Making a list of accomplishments, activities, awards or work will lessen the impact of your words. Expand on a topic by using specific, concrete examples to support the points you want to make.

Use “I” statements.
Talk about yourself so that we can get to know your personality, talents, accomplishments and potential for success on a UC campus. Use “I” and “my” statements in your responses.

Proofread and edit.
Although you will not be evaluated on grammar, spelling or sentence structure, you should proofread your work and make sure your writing is clear. Grammatical and spelling errors can be distracting to the reader and get in the way of what you’re trying to communicate.

Solicit feedback.
Your answers should reflect your own ideas and be written by you alone, but others — family, teachers and friends—can offer valuable suggestions. Ask advice of whomever you like, but do not plagiarize from sources in print or online and do not use anyone's words, published or unpublished, but your own.

Copy and paste.
Once you are satisfied with your answers, save them in plain text (ASCII) and paste them into the space provided in the application. Proofread once more to make sure no odd characters or line breaks have appeared.

Relax.
This is one of many pieces of information we consider in reviewing your application. Your responses can only add value to the application. An admission decision will not be based on this section alone.

Comprehensive review factors for transfer applicants
Completion of a specified pattern or number of courses that meet breadth or general education requirements.
Completion of a specified pattern or number of courses that provide continuity with upper division courses in the student's major, such as a UC Transfer Pathway, associate degree for transfer (ADT offered at CA community colleges only), or UC campus-specific major prerequisites.
Your grade point average in all transferable courses-especially in a UC Transfer Pathway or in major prerequisites.
Participation in academically selective honors courses or programs.
Special talents, achievements and awards in a particular field, such as visual and performing arts, communication or athletic endeavors; special skills, such as demonstrated written and oral proficiency in other languages; special interests, such as intensive study and exploration of other cultures; experiences that demonstrate unusual promise for leadership, such as significant community service or significant participation in student government; or other significant experiences or achievements that demonstrate your promise for contributing to the intellectual vitality of a campus.
Completion of special projects undertaken in the context of your college curriculum or in conjunction with special school events, projects or programs.
Academic accomplishments in light of your life experiences and special circumstances, including but not limited to: disabilities, low family income, first generation to attend college, need to work, disadvantaged social or educational environment, difficult personal and family situations or circumstances, refugee status or veteran status.
Location of the college and your residence.
Completion of a UC Transfer Pathway or an associate degree for transfer (ADT) offered by a California community college.

Do campuses make their admissions decisions independently from other UC campuses?
Each UC campus evaluates each application without knowing the status of the same application at another campus. In making admission decisions, campuses do not consider where you've applied or your admission status to other campuses. All campuses consider your application simultaneously, yet independently of all other campuses you applied to.

After you apply:
1.  Print a copy of your application.
You'll want to keep a record of your application ID and a summary of your application for reference.

2.  Update your application, if necessary.
You can log in to your application to review and, if necessary, change your telephone number, email, mailing address or exam scores. You can also apply to additional campuses if they're still open.

If there are changes to your academic record: If you add or drop a course, fail to earn a C or better in a course or enroll in a new college after you submit your application, log back in and update your information using the Transfer Academic Update (TAU). If you receive an offer of admission, be sure to confirm with the campus admission office that they are aware of the deficient grade or schedule changes.

Keep in mind: We cannot guarantee that a campus can go back to review an application after a new TAU has been received. Make sure to save a copy of your correspondence just in case.

If there are changes to other sections of your application: Minor changes to your activities, awards, volunteer work or employment are unlikely to have an impact on your admission decision.

3. Update grades and courses: Transfer Academic Update (TAU)
After applying, you are required to update your grades and course records. 

4.  Await the decision.
Each UC campus will notify you of its admission decision, generally by the end of April. 

5.  Submit transcripts, exam scores (AP, IB and A-Level) and IGETC certification after you accept an offer of admission.
You must have final, official transcripts, official AP, IB, and A-Level exam scores and IGETC certification sent to the campus where you plan to enroll.
Final, official transcripts must be postmarked or electronically submitted on or before July 1.

Admissions decisions:

If you are a transfer applicant, the campuses may notify you anytime between March 1 and May 1. You can refer to each campus's admissions website for more information about notification.
These notification dates apply only to applicants for the fall term who file during the October 1– November 30 filing period. Fall applicants who file late or applicants for winter or spring should contact the campus admissions office regarding admission notification periods.

Campus portals
By January, each campus you applied to will email you to create a username and password for access to the campus’ applicant portal. This is the site where the admission decision will be posted along with other important information. You should check each campus portal frequently.

Provisional admission
Offers of admission are provisional until the campus receives your final official transcript and verifies successful completion of all coursework required for UC eligibility. Each campus provides newly admitted students with conditions for admissions that must be satisfied prior to enrollment at the University.

The final, official transcript UC receives from the institution from which you are transferring must indicate that you are in good standing. If you are not in good standing, the offer of admission may be withdrawn.

Review of admission decisions
Our campuses review each applicant's record thoroughly, and admission decisions are rarely reversed. However, students who are not admitted may request a review of the decision if they believe there was an error in the evaluation or can provide new and compelling information not included in the initial application. Each campus has specific procedures to handle such appeals. Contact the campus admissions office for information.

Acceptance of admission
Each campus that offers you admission will issue you a Statement of Intent to Register (SIR) form or direct you to a website where you can declare your intent to register. Use this form or website to indicate whether you accept or decline the admission offer.
You are strongly encouraged to wait until you hear from each campus you have applied to before you declare your intent to register.
Transfer students admitted for fall must submit the SIR by June 1.
For most campuses, the SIR submission process is online. However, if you are required to mail a paper SIR form, it must be postmarked by this date. Applicants admitted at a later date or for the winter or spring term should respond by the deadline indicated in the offer of admission.
You may accept admission to one campus only. You may not transfer your SIR from one campus to another after you have declared your intent to register. A $250 nonrefundable deposit is required with the SIR. 

Waitlists
Most campuses typically maintain transfer waitlists for select majors with an opt-in deadline of May 15 (in most cases). You'll be notified of your final status by July 1.
You can accept waitlist offers from multiple campuses, but you can only accept one offer of admission.
Even if you accept a waitlist offer at a UC campus, you should submit a Statement of Intent to Register (SIR) or secure your spot at another college/university that has offered you admission by the June 1 deadline to ensure you have a place to attend in the fall.

Transfer academic update
After applying, transfer students are required to update their grades and course records.
You must provide your final grades from the previous term and list all courses in progress or planned for all terms before you expect to enroll. Your updates will ensure UC campuses have the most current academic information available. Even if you do not have any in-progress or planned courses and your record of course grades was complete in your original application, you must log in to your application and complete the Transfer Academic Update.

Admitted transfer applicants
You will be asked to submit official transcripts from all schools and colleges you have attended, including high school, regardless of your length of attendance or whether you believe the credit is transferable. Some campuses may request transcripts prior to admission.

Transcript information for applicants who have attended school outside the U.S.
The admissions office may make a preliminary evaluation of your application based on the information you provide on your application. However, if you are admitted, UC must receive an official academic record directly from each institution you attended, up to and including the school or college/university you currently attend. Some campuses may also require academic records from your high school or secondary school begining with grade nine. 
Each academic record must list the:

dates you attended the institution
titles of courses and examinations you completed
grades (marks) you received
credit, hours or units earned
any degree or diploma you may have received
Because it may take some time for schools outside the United States to forward your records to UC, you are encouraged to have available legible photocopies of your official foreign academic records. Do not send transcripts at the time of application. After you submit your application, be prepared to submit a PDF copy of the records upon request. Official transcripts will be required at the campus you elect to attend.

UC recognizes that it may be difficult to obtain foreign records in the event of political upheaval or natural disaster. However, these situations are rare. Failure to provide official records may jeopardize your enrollment at UC.

Veterans & active-duty military
If you are admitted and have accepted an offer of admission, you can submit official military transcripts (e.g., ACE, SMAART) to your UC campus.

UC may award transfer credit for some of your military courses if the content was equivalent to a course taught at UC.

Good to know
In the United States, the academic record is called a transcript. It may be called by another name, such as leaving certificate, maturity certificate, bachillerato or baccalauréat in your country.


Freshman Requirements:

1. Complete 15 A-G courses (11 of them by end of junior year) 
You need to complete a minimum of 15 college-preparatory courses (A-G courses) with a letter grade of C or better. For courses completed during Winter 2020 through summer 2021, UC will also accept a grade of CR (credit) and P (pass). You must complete at least 11 of these courses prior to the beginning of your last year of high school.

The 15 courses are:
a. History: 2 years
b. English: 4 years
c. Mathematics: 3 years
d. Science: 2 years
e. Language other than English *or equivalent to the 2nd level of high school instruction :2 years*
f. Visual and performing arts: 1 year
g. College-preparatory elective(chosen from the subjects listed above or another course approved by the university): 1 year

2. Earn a grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or better (3.4 if you're a nonresident) in these courses with no grade lower than a C. https://admission.universityofcalifornia.edu/admission-requirements/freshman-requirements/gpa-requirement.html

California students
If you're a state resident graduating from a California high school who has met the minimum requirements and aren't admitted to any UC campus to which you apply, you'll be offered a spot at another campus if space is available, provided:
You rank in the top 9 percent of California high school students, according to our updated Statewide Index, or
You rank in the top 9 percent of your graduating class at a participating high school. We refer to this as "Eligible in the Local Context" (ELC).

California applicants must earn at least a 3.0 GPA and nonresidents must earn a minimum 3.4 GPA in all A-G or college-preparatory courses to meet this requirement. To see how to calculate your UC GPA, follow our instructions below. 

1. Convert your grades to grade points.
Convert the letter grades earned in all A-G courses completed between summer after 9th grade through summer after 11th grade to grade points: A=4 points, B=3 points, C=2 points, D=1 points. (Pluses and minuses don't count.)

2. Give yourself an extra point for each semester of a UC honors-level course, with a maximum of 8 points between 10th and 11th grades.
For California residents: 

Honors courses are Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate Higher Level (IB HL) and designated Standard Level (IB SL) courses, UC-transferable college courses and UC-certified honors courses that appear on your school's course list.
For 10th grade, you cannot use more than 4 honors points.
Grades of D or F in an honors course do not earn an extra point.
Grades of CR (credit) or P (pass) in an honors course do not earn an extra point.
Classes taken during the summer after 9th grade count as 10th grade; classes in summer after 10th grade count as 10th grade; classes in summer after 11th grade count as 11th grade.
One college course = one grade = one honors point.
Nonresidents: 

In calculating an out-of-state student's GPA to determine if the 3.4 minimum has been met, UC will grant honors weight for AP or IB courses only, but not for school-designated honors courses. The weight is given to letter grades of A, B, or C. School-designated honors courses may be considered in the campus comprehensive review process.

3. Add up all the points to find out your total grade points.

4. Divide your total grade points by the number of letter grades earned in courses taken between the summer after 9th grade through summer after 11th grade.
This is your UC GPA (for example: 3.57). Do not round up or down.

Admission by exception
Sometimes even the most creative, focused and intellectually passionate students aren't able to fulfill our admission requirements. Even these students have a chance to attend UC.
Some students are home-schooled and don't have transcripts. Others have life circumstances that have prevented them living up to their promise. The list is endless.

If you believe you have the ability and potential to succeed at UC, you could be considered for admission by exception.

Each UC campus can offer admission to a few students who do not meet all of the A-G course requirements or minimum GPA requirements. You may use the personal insight questions or additional comments section of the admission application to explain your unique story.

California residents
Close to 90 percent of UC undergraduates are California residents. They are a vibrant and diverse group, encompassing the cultural, racial, socioeconomic and geographic richness of our state.

Two paths to UC
For the highest-achieving California applicants, we offer two pathways to UC. If you are in one of the following groups, but you’re not admitted to any of the UC campuses you apply to, you'll be offered a spot at another campus, if space is available.

Statewide guarantee 
If you rank in the top 9 percent of California students according to our updated Statewide Index you will be eligible for the Statewide Guarantee.

Local guarantee (Eligibility in the Local Context) 
If you rank in the top 9 percent of your graduating class at a participating California high school, you will be eligible for the local guarantee. 

Who is a California resident?
A student is considered a resident for admission purposes if he or she can answer yes to any of the following questions:

Have you attended high school in California for at least three years during grades 9-12 and will graduate or have graduated from a California high school?
Have you lived in California for the last 12 months?
If you're under 18, does your parent or legal guardian live in California?
Is your parent, legal guardian, spouse or registered domestic partner an employee of the University of California or a UC-affiliated national laboratory?
Non-immigrants (students on a foreign/non-immigrant visa) are not eligible for California resident status for admission purposes.

Determining residency for tuition purposes is a separate process with different requirements. You can learn more about the California residency requirements for tuition here.

Advanced Placement (AP)
Students who earn scores of 3 or higher on designated College Board Advanced Placement tests will receive credit toward graduation. 

International Baccalaureate (IB)
Students completing the IB diploma with a score of 30 or above will receive 6 quarter units (4 semester units) total toward their UC undergraduate degree, in addition to the units earned for scores of 5 or better on designated individual Higher Level exams (usually 24 quarter/16 semester units).

A-levels
Students who earn a grade of A, B, or C on designated GCE or Singapore-Cambridge Advanced Level examinations (A-levels) will receive credit toward graduation. 

Duplication with college courses
Students should be advised that college courses taken before or after attending UC may duplicate AP, IB and/or A-Level examinations. Additionally, exams may duplicate each other (for example, an AP or IB exam in the same subject area).

If the student does duplicate an exam with another exam of the same subject content, and/or an exam with a college course, we will award credit only once.

AP credits
Elective units awarded may be applied to UC graduation requirements for specific subjects and/or for general education requirements, as determined by each campus.

For transfer students, AP exams can also be used to meet transfer admission subject requirements in English (UC-E), Math (UC-M) and 4 other courses chosen from the humanities (UC- H), behavioral/social sciences (UC-B) and biological/physical sciences (UC-S).

Although the College Board reports all AP test results to us, students should be aware AP test scores lower than 3 will not adversely affect their chances for admission.

Units granted for AP tests are not counted toward the maximum number of credits required for formal declaration of a major or the maximum number of units a student may accumulate prior to graduation. Students who enter UC with AP credit do not have to declare a major earlier than other students, nor are they required to graduate earlier.

Credit granted for AP exams
Credit is expressed in semester units for Berkeley and Merced, and quarter units for all other campuses. In the left column, the designations (e.g. UC-E, UC-M, etc.) indicate if the AP exam


Art and Design: 
2-D Art and Design: 5.3 sem/8 qtr
3-D Art and Design: 5.3 sem/8 qtr
Drawing: 5.3 sem/8 qtr
(5.3 sem/8 qtr unit maximum for all three exams)

Art History (UC-H)
5.3 sem/8 qtr
Biology (UC-S)

5.3 sem/8 qtr
Chemistry (UC-S)

5.3 sem/8 qtr

Computer Science

Computer Science A: 5.3 sem/8 qtr 
Computer Science Principles: 5.3 sem/8 qtr

Economics (UC-B)

Microeconomics: 2.6 sem/4 qtr
Macroeconomics: 2.6 sem/4 qtr
English

Language and Composition (UC-E): 5.3 sem/8 qtr
Literature and Composition (UC-E/H): 5.3 sem/8 qtr 
(5.3 sem/8 qtr maximum for both exams)

Environmental Science (UC-S)

2.6 sem/4 qtr
Government and Politics (UC-B)

United States: 2.6 sem/4 qtr
Comparative: 2.6 sem/4 qtr
History (UC-B/H)

United States History: 5.3 sem/8 qtr
European History: 5.3 sem/8 qtr
Modern World History: 5.3 sem/8 qtr
Human Geography (UC-B)

2.6 sem/4 qtr
Language Other than English (UC-H)

5.3 sem/8 qtr for each:

Chinese Language and Culture
French Language and Culture
German Language and Culture
Italian Language and Culture
Latin 
Japanese Language and Culture
Spanish Language and Culture
Spanish Literature and Culture

Mathematics (UC-M)

Calculus AB: 2.6 sem/4 qtr
Calculus BC: 5.3 sem/8 qtr
(5.3 sem/8 qtr maximum for both exams)

Music Theory (UC-H)

5.3 sem/8 qtr

Physics (UC-S)

Physics 1: 5.3 sem/8 qtr
Physics 2: 5.3 sem/8 qtr
Physics C Mechanics: 2.6 sem/4 qtr
Physics C Electricity and Magnetism: 2.6 sem/4 qtr
(5.3 sem/8 qtr maximum for all tests)

Psychology (UC-B)

2.6 sem/4 qtr
Statistics (UC-M)

2.6 sem/4 qtr

AB subscore on Calculus BC examination
Students who take the Calculus BC examination and earn a subscore of 3 or higher on the Calculus AB portion will receive 4 quarter units for the Calculus AB examination, even if they do not receive a score of 3 or higher on the BC examination (note that the maximum credit awarded for both exams is 8 quarter units).

Music Theory subscore
We grant credit for the full Music Theory exam. Students who earn only a subscore will not receive exam credit.

Duplication with college courses
Students should be advised that college courses taken before or after attending UC may duplicate AP, IB and/or A-Level examinations. Additionally, exams may duplicate each other (for example, an AP or IB exam in the same subject area).

If the student does duplicate an exam with another exam of the same subject content, and/or an exam with a college course, we will award credit only once.

Financial aid lets you focus on what matters: your education.
Our financial aid program takes the pressure off paying for your studies, so you can concentrate on what’s important: your education. There’s plenty of help available for students from all walks of life.

Grants & scholarships
Think of grants and scholarships as free money or money that doesn't have to be paid back. Grants and scholarships (also called "gift aid") help reduce the cost of attending college. 

Loans 
A loan is borrowed money (you may hear terms like "borrowing" or "taking out loans" ) that you have to pay back with interest. Loans help you cover costs that aren't paid for by grants and scholarships. 

Jobs & work-study 
Most students who receive financial aid work part time during the school year. You can either find part-time jobs on or off campus on your own, or you may qualify for Federal Work-Study (or campus work-study).

UC financial aid programs
Blue and Gold Opportunity Plan 
If your family's annual income is under $80,000 and you qualify for financial aid, you won't pay any systemwide tuition or fees under the Blue and Gold Opportunity Plan. 

Middle Class Scholarship (MCS) program 
The MCS provides funding to covers a portion of the cost of attending for eligible undergraduates and to students pursuing a teaching credential who attend the University of California or a California State University. 

California DREAM Loan Program
The California DREAM Loan Program provides eligible undocumented AB 540 undergraduates with the option to borrow loans to help cover the cost of attending UC.

